# Replate 🥗 (Front End Code Base)

## Table of Contents

- **[React Developer 1](#junior-react-developers)**<br>
- **[React Developer 2](#senior-react-developer)**<br>
- **[Product Vision Document](#second-chance)**<br>
- **[Proposal](#proposal)**<br>
- **[UX Design](#ux-design)**<br>
- **[Frameworks and Libraries Used](#frameworks-and-libraries)**<br>
- **[Target Audience](#target-audience)**<br>
- **[Research](#research)**<br>
- **[Prototype Key Features](#prototype-key-features)**<br>
- **[Credits](#credits)**<br>

## <a name='overview'></a>Overview
This frontend code base allows users to navigate Replate's web platform. Business users can post excess food to be picked up and volunteer users can sign in to see what food items are available to be picked up, claim 1 or more, and pick them up to be delivered to partner organizations such as homeless shelters, soup kitchens, etc. Business users and volunteers must register and create profiles in order to access functionality of the app. 

## Junior React Developers (Revisit throughout week to update/modify)
Applied JavaScript | Intro-to-React| Single Page Application | TeamWork Capabilities | Form Managment
| --------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- | ------------ |
Student used little to no event handlers in the application. Student cannot demonstrate individual contribution of event handlers in the project. | Student cannot demonstrate individual contribution of reusable React components, or useEffect and useState hooks. | React router was not used, no use of GET requests are found within the application. Student can not demonstrate individual contribution of network calls or React router usage. | TBD | Forms are not controlled by React state, and student cannot defend decision to use uncontrolled components. Performance of the app suffers due to improper form management.

## Senior React Developer (Revisit throughout week to update/modify)
React Application | HTTP/AJAX | State Management | TeamWork Capabilities |
| --------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- |
Student failed to deploy a dynamically rendered react application. Static landing page is not incorporated with the overall application. | Complete CRUD operations are not found throughout the application. Student cannot demonstrate that they individually created pages that complete all CDUD operations. Authentication is not handled in the client application. | The state management system has either not been implemented, or is incoherent. State is lost in the process of using the application. Student cannot demonstrate that they individually leveraged or supported the building of the state management system. | TBD |

---

# Product Vision Document :tada:

## Replate
Do you own a business? Would you like to make a big impact in your community? Replate is an easy to use app that allows you as a business user to effortlessly have those extras picked up by a Replate volunteer and donated to one of our worthy partner organizations. You just choose a convenient time and a volunteer will show up to take your extras to a predetermined place of need!

#### Minimal Viable Product (MVP)
- This app contains two user types. (1) A business user who can log in, create a profile for her business, and create pickup requests, and (2) a volunteer who can log in, create a profile, see a list of the pickup requests generated by business users, and claim one (or multiple) pickup requests.
- **Landing Page**: Has a nav bar with title: "Replate", and separate login/register buttons for business users and volunteers. Both user types are required to register and log in to view or interact with data.
##### Pages for Potential Businesses
- **Registration/Login Page**
- **Dashboard**: After clicking on the "Business" button, the user is brought to a login/registration page. After registering/logging in, the user is presented with a dashboard where the user can edit their profile and create/manage pickup requests.
- **Create a Pickup Request Page**: Business users can specify type of food, amount of food by count/weight, and a preferred pickup time.
- **My Pickup Requests**: Business users can manage the pickup requests they've created. A user can edit or delete their pickup requests.
##### Pages for Potential Volunteers
- **Registration/Login Page**
- **Dashboard**: After clicking on the "Volunteer" button, the user is brought to a login/registration page. After registering/logging in, the user is presented with a dashboard where the user can edit their profile and view unclaimed pickup requests, and manage their claimed pickup requests.
- **Available Pickups**: The user is presented with a list of unclaimed pickups.
- **My Pickups**: The user is presented with a list of pickups they've claimed, and the user can unclaim one or mark one for completion.
##### Navigation - Navigation is present on all pages, Users should know what page is active by clicking on a nav link and activating their tab. 

#### Future Goals 
- A business user can view the profile of the volunteer(s) who claimed their pickup request(s).
- Push notifications that notify volunteers of new pickup requests when they are created by a business user.
- Allow business user to view the realtime location of the volunteer who claimed a pickup.
- Location-based notification that alerts a business user when the volunteer of a claimed pickup is within a predetermined distance of the business's address.
- Split up request orders so a large amount of food can be picked up by volunteers from different organizations.
- Chat / calling function that allows volunteers and business users to communicate without exiting the app.
- A social function that promotes quality and accountability by allowing volunteers and businesses to rate each other up to 5 stars and eventually metrics like professionalism, availability, communication, and punctuality.
- A wishlist and a current list of organizations that are willing to receive and distribute the excess food.

#### Proposal
- What problem does your app solve?
  * Help fix the prison system by rehabilitating prison inmates. Fight prejudice and profiling in the social system and also helps employers find valuable employees after prisoners transition to civilian life.

- Be as specific as possible; how does your app solve the problem?
  * Creates a space where employers can offer career services for prison inmates looking to change their lives. Allows business users to find employees easily near them and to make a difference in their employees lives for the better by analyzing their resumes and skills. 
- What is the mission statement? 
  * Reconnect prisoners to civilian life and offer a them a second chance by assisting employers in the finding and hiring of prison inmates as employees both in prison and afterwards in their transition into civilian life.


#### Features
- What features are required for your minimum viable product?
  * Ability for employers to view prison and prisoner data.
  * A way for prison admin (career coaches) to register and log in and create and edit prison and prisoner data.
  * A way for employers to communicate interest in employees to career coaches for future hiring.

- What features may you wish to put in a future release?
*Zip code search... functionality to donate legal services to help prisoners clean their records and get better services for rehabilitation... 

#### What do the top 3 similar apps do for their users?
1. Olio– When it comes to wasted food, Olio is at the top of its game. Instead of local bakeries discarding products like bread and bagels, they are picked up and posted on Olio. Started in 2015, the project has 450,000 participants in 32 countries! A third of those who use the app fall under the poverty line, which makes it philanthropic and food-waste friendly!
2. Food Rescue US–Food Rescue US is another great app that reduces food waste in the United States. Luckily, this app makes it very easy for those who donate, deliver and provide food to find each other! If you’re a restaurant or grocer, you can list the food you’d like to donate. Then, a driver can deliver it to an agency or food pantry that’s looking for that item!
3. # La Piat – If you’re looking for a meal at the end of the day, La Piat is a food sharing app Canada can be proud of! Based in Toronto, this app values regulation so all chefs have to have their Ontario Food Handling Certificate. All you have to do is peruse the pictures of available food. Once you pick your item, it will be delivered to you!

1. Couldn't really find anything like it. Government websites do provide info on what to do before hiring prison inmates and what benefits you could have: https://www.bop.gov/business/employing_former_inmates.jsp



#### UX Design
- What design system will you use?
  * Figma Tool to build out wire frames for design and user flow, color pallete etc.
  * Styled Components
  
###### What is the URL to your wireframes?
https://www.figma.com/file/yhmSmrIblvKqJcjEGITNVZ/PrisonSkills?node-id=0%3A1

  * Tool to pick with : Adobe Pallete Picker
  * Color palette choice: See figma...
  * Type system: TBD
  * Tool to reference: TBD
  * Typography choice: TBD
  * Icon system:


#### What will your user flow be?
- Landing Page -> Business button for business user login/dashboard, and volunteer button for volunteer login/dashboard.
- Business user flow will lead to registration/login, then creating a business profile, then a dashboard where business user can post pickup requests and manage their existing requests. Business user can edit their profile, cancel existing requests they've created, and view the profile(s) of the volunteer(s) who claim their pickup requests.
- Volunteer flow will lead to registration/login, then creating a volunteer profile, then a dashboard where the volunteer can see a list of unclaimed pickup requests. Once a volunteer claims a pickup request and delivers it, the volunteer can mark the pickup as complete.

#### Frameworks and Libraries
- What 3rd party frameworks/libraries did you use?

**Frontend:**
- Axios
- React
- React-router
- Formik
- Styled Components
- Redux

**Backend:**
- Bcryptjs
- Express
- Helmet
- JsonWebToken
- Knex

- Do APIs require you to contact its maintainer to gain access?
  * No

- Are you required to pay to use the API?
  * No
  
#### Target Audience

- Who is your target audience? 
  * Our target audience is restaurant owners who are interested in giving back to the communities that support them, and (volunteers from) local non-profit organizations that distribute food to those who need it.

- What feedback have you gotten from potential users?
  * The app/marketing need to clearly communicate the purpose of the app is coordinating transportation of excess quality food from businesses to organizations willing to distribute said food to those in the community who need it.

- Have you validated the problem and your solution with your target audience? How?
  *  

#### Research
_Research thoroughly before writing a single line of code. Solidify the features of your app conceptually before implementation. Spend the weekend researching so you can hit the ground running on Monday._

**Research material:**
https://www.feedingamerica.org/hunger-in-america - "For more than 35 years, Feeding America has responded to the hunger crisis in America by providing food to people in need through a nationwide network of food banks."
https://familyapp.com/try-a-food-sharing-app/ - This page contains a list of 3 apps that operate in a manner similar to Replate.
https://www.usda.gov/foodwaste/faqs - This page contains information about the foodwaste in the U.S.
https://www.gocopia.com/ - Copia is an app with goals similar to our own.
https://undark.org/2019/07/02/food-waste-apps/ - criticism of food sharing apps
https://toogoodtogo.com/en-us - TooGoodToGo is another app that connects users/customers with unsold food from shops and restaurants for a discount


#### Prototype Key Features
This is the “bread and butter” of the app, this is what makes your app yours. Calculate how long it takes to implement these features and triple the time estimated. That way you’ll have plenty of time to finish. It is preferred to drop features and spend more time working on your MVP features if needed.

- User can create an account as either a `volunteer` or a `business`
- Authenticated `business` can:
--- create, read, update, and delete their business profile (username, business name, business address, phone number)
--- create a pickup request (type of food item, amount of food by count/weight, preferred pickup time)
--- cancel/delete or update a pickup request
--- view the profile of the volunteer who claims a pickup request
- Authenticated `volunteer` can:
--- create, read, update, and delete a volunteer profile (username, volunteer's name, phone number)
--- view a list of unassigned pickup requests that have been created by all business users
--- select a pending pickup and be presented with a detail view
--- accept/claim a pending pickup and it will be added to volunteer's list of assigned pickups
--- cancel/delete a claimed pickup and it will be removed from the assigned pickup list and added back to the pending pickup list
--- mark an assigned pickup as completed


## Credits
### Project Manager
Zac Smith https://github.com/mrzacsmith <br>

### User Interface
Elysia Gabe https://github.com/elysiagabe <br>

### Frontend
Erik Ahlgren (senior react dev): https://github.com/thericktastic <br>
Humayan Rashid (junior react dev): https://github.com/itshum <br>

### Backend
Russ https://github.com/newbi462 <br>